Feat  user guide revision (#80)
ImperialCollegeLondon/icl-rcs-user-guide: docs/hpc/cluster-specification.md

Reviewer: I've made some edits in another branch (I think, I did it a couple of weeks ago). Please let me know if you prefer I add them as comments, as David did.

# HPC Cluster Specification

As of 20th March 2026, the RCS Platforms team provides two HPC services:

> 1. The "capabilty machine" [HX1](#hx1) which is designed for inherently multi-node workloads such as simulations, as well as GPU accelerated jobs requiring more than 48 GB of GPU RAM. This service has gated access due to its specialised nature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The "capabilty cluster" [HeX1](#hx1) which is designed for inherently multi-node workloads such as simulations, as well as GPU accelerated jobs requiring more than 48 GB of GPU RAM. This service has gated access due to its specialised nature.
```

Reviewer: I generally use HX1/2/3 and HEX-HPC/HTC/AI, so I think we keep with HX1 on these, if that's ok?

2. The general purpose cluster available for most research workloads called [CX3](#cx3), suited for high throughput processing and 'single-node' jobs. This service also acts as an entry-point and sandbox to people new to engaging with HPC systems.

Each service runs on their own cluster of computers, where each computer is referred to technically as a "node", as specified below.

## HX1 Hardware

> HX1 is a "capability machine" cluster, suited to running complex code managing so much data that a multiple CPUs managing unique workloads are required. Because multiple CPUs are required, these workloads are known as multi-node tasks due to the need for multiple nodes to process data in tandem with one another.

Reviewer 2: Because multiple nodes are needed these are multi-node jobs. Just needing a lot of CPUs doesn't mean a job it multi-node. The jump from multiple CPU (multi-core) to multi-node is where HeX1 comes in.

How to request access along with further details of how to use the service can be found on [the HX1 Cluster page](./hx1.md).

* **Compute Only Nodes**:
  * 288 nodes running 2 Intel Icelake Xeon Platinum 8358 CPUs, giving each node 64 cores with 512 GB RAM
* **GPU-fitted Nodes**:
  * 15 nodes running 2 Intel Xeon Platinum 8360Y (Ice Lake) CPUs, giving each node 72 core with 1 TB RAM and 4 NVidia A100 GPUs
* **Networking**:
  * InfiniBand (200 Gbit/s) via NVidia ConnectX-6 HDR200 between each compute node
  * Ethernet (100GbE) between each node and storage
* **Storage**:
  * 2 PB of HDD storage
  * 300TB of SSD storage

**Total**: 303 nodes, 19,512 cores, 159 TB of RAM, 60 A100 GPUs.

## CX3 Hardware

> CX3 is the primary HPC facility at Imperial. It is large-scale facility designed for most computational research workflows, typically those that are high throughput single-node tasks but is able to handle small multi-node tasks. Please note that wait times for these multi-node tasks are incredibly long as it requires waiting for multiple nodes to become free, thus we recommend consider utilising the HX1 system instead

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CX3 is the primary HPC facility at Imperial. It is a large-scale cluster designed for most computational research workflows, typically those that are high throughput single-node tasks but is able to handle small multi-node tasks. Please note that wait times for these multi-node tasks are incredibly long as it requires waiting for multiple nodes to become free, thus we recommend consider utilising the HeX1 system instead.
```
